### Virtual Private Cloud
- Networking foundation for EC2 and other services.
- In each region, AWS automatically provides a default VPC with default subnets, a main route table, a default security group, and a default NACL. Most users use a default VPC for a long time without configuration.
- Define a contiguous IP address range for the VPC and representing it as a CIDR. The primary CIDR should ideally be sufficiently large to accommodate all your instances but small enough to leave room for a secondary CIDR.
- Prior to launching instances, you need to configure security groups, since every instance's ENI must have at least one attached. One area where you do have some flexibility is with network access control lists.
- You can associate an NACL with a subnet at any time or forego NACLs altogether.
### VPC Endpoints
- Keeps traffic traffic between AWS services within the AWS network.
- Interface Endpoints
	- Costs money
	- Uses an ENI with Private IP (AWS PrivateLink)
	- Supports many AWS services
- Gateway Endpoints
	- Free
	- Target for a specific route in your route table.
	- Only supports DynamoDB and S3
### VPC Flow Logs
- Monitors the in-and-out traffic of your interfaces within your VPC.
- VPC, subnet or network-level.
- Cannot be tagged like other resources.
- You cannot change the configuration of a flow log after it's created.
- You cannot enable flow logs for VPCs which are peered with your VPC unless it is in the same account.
- VPC Flow Logs can be delivered to an S3 or CloudWatch Logs
- VPC Flow Logs contains the source and destination IP addresses.
- Not monitored instance traffic
	- Instance traffic generated by contacting the AWS DNS servers
	- Windows license activation traffic from instances
	- Traffic to and from the instance metadata address
		- 169.254.169.254
	- DHCP Traffic
	- Any traffic to the reserved IP address of the default VPC router.
